Overview:

One of the objectives of the SRE Hiring Process is to ensure each new hire is appropriately and consistently evaluated. Site Reliability Engineers need to have the a good mix of customer facing and technical skills, a base level of understanding and fluency in automation through software development. ISO staff works with computers, and it's important to make computers work for them. Finally, SRE's need to understand the architecture and context of distributed systems. Given the importance of these focus areas, new hires are required to meet a minimum bar in these areas: Fit, Technical Skills, Software Development and Architecture.

Adequately vetting these skills requires appropriate and consistent measurement. When phone screening & interviewing candidates, it's important for the purposes of gathering data to provide a number score in these area. Acknowledging that a number score is subjective, it's important to have appropriate and probing questions questions in order to solicit a response that provides information required.

When Phone Screening & Interviewing, the way these questions should be approached is not pass/fail but as explorations of a candidates strengths and weaknesses. The right attitude has much higher level of SRE team success than deep knowledge in a particular area. Ensure that questions from each of these areas are asked to adequately asses candidate strengths.



Fit:

Forget this role. Describe for me your “ideal” job.
SRE roles can often gravitate towards fire fighting and crises management’. Project work requires detailed, in-depth analysis with prolonged periods of focus. In an interrupt driven operational role, how do you balance support tasks against focused improvement work?
Give us an example of when you handled a stressful situation.
Tell me about a time that was particularly difficult circumstances, and what did you and the team do to resolve it?
At your last review, what improvements did your manager suggest you make?
Tell us about your short and long term goals?
Tell me about yourself. What do you do, day to day?
Tell me about the hardest you've ever worked.
Tell me about the worst-run/best-run outage you've been a part of. What made it bad/well-run?

Technical Skills:

Troubleshooting

Let’s say that after your first month in a new job, you are on-call and a customer contacts you in a panic that the server running linux they use for their critical application is responding very slowly. How would you approach the situation and what steps would you take to resolve it?

Operating Systems

What is the difference between a symbolic and hard link? When would you use each?
What are shadow passwords?
How do you rig Apache to start up on boot? - Follow Up: Apache doesn't start up on boot, and the previous step checks out okay. How do you track down the problem?
How do you delete a file that starts with a dash?
What happens to an application that runs out of memory?
What is your stance on enabling/disabling swap on server systems and why?
Rank the following in terms of speed: Access a register, Access main memory, Perform a context switch, Execute a seek on a 15K RPM drive.
Describe difference between process and thread.
What is your favorite Linux distro & why?
What information is contained in a file inode?
Which system call returns inode information?
What signal does the "kill" command send by default?

Networking
What is the difference between layer 2 and layer 3 devices?
How do you distinguish a DNS problem from a network problem?
How can you tell what ports on a system are open?
Describe in detail what happens when you type 'telnet google.com 80' at a bash shell prompt.
How many IP addresses are usable in a /23 network?

Web
You have a local machine at home with internet access, tell me as much as you can about what happens when you type “www.apple.com” into the address bar of your web browser.
Describe POST and GET & the differences of each.
Describe the HTTP/1.1 use of a 100-continue status (client sends request expecting server 100-continue before proceeding)
Storage
With 4 disks in a system, is there a difference between RAID 0+1 and RAID 1+0?
Security
Security has many components and aspects to it. - If you were tasked with installing a web server running on linux, considering all elements of server installation and use, how would you approach the task from a security context?
Software Development:

Scripting / Automation

You have a list of files in a directory in your homedir, all named “*.doc” (e.g. foo.doc, bar.doc, baz.doc), and you need to rename them to *.txt (e.g. foo.txt, bar.txt, baz.txt). There are thousands of them, so you need to use some form of scripting to do it. Show me how you’d do it.
Write a monitoring script in your home directory that can detect if a host has been rebooting frequently.  Are there any assumptions the script makes?  Are there edge cases it won’t detect?
Save a sorted list of the top 25 largest files/directories in /Applications to your desktop.  What command did you use?
Create 250 files in /var/tmp with the content of the file being the same as the filename.  Schedule a cleanup job that will delete everything in /var/tmp at 10pm every night.  Show your work.
In your chosen language write a script to list all of the files in a directory as a web page.
Data Structures / Algorithms
In programming, there are many elements and structures. Please describe the following and potential use cases: Variable, Conditional, Array, Loop, hash map.
Define Big O notation.
You have a list of random integers, how do you find two numbers whose sum is X?  What is the complexity of your solution? Can it be better?
Give a simple explanation of pass-by-value and pass-by-reference. What does your preferred programming language use? Some of them may even use something else differently.
What is recursion?  What is it good for?  Can you give me an example of a problem that would be solved by using recursion?
What happens when you index a column in a database?  Why does this make the lookups faster for that particular column?  What are the downsides to indexing?
Calculate the angle between the hour hand and minute hand on an analog 12-hour circular clock. Details
Given a list of variable size containing strings, write a function to filter out duplicates. Details
You have a fixed-size list of integers from 1 to N (inclusive), but one of them is randomly removed. How do you find that missing integer? Details
Write a function that accepts an integer and returns True if the number is a power of 2, False otherwise. Details
Configuration Management
Please tell us about your experience using configuration management to manage a file, package or process. What were some problems you encountered, how did you resolve them, and what did you learn from that experience?
QA / Tools
What different types of testing need to be carried out on a software system, and what tools would you use to achieve this testing? What testing is necessary to ensure a new service is ready for production?
How would you make key aspects of a software system traceable?
How do you handle version control?
Architecture:
Why is it hard to build a consistent and reliable distributed system?
Define the CAP Theorem.
How would you assess how "deployable" a system is?
How would you deploy software to 5000 systems?
What are some examples of how you might scale a write/read-heavy app? Why?
How would you migrate application xyz from a traditional datacenter to AWS cloud?
Design a system that would scan 100,000 URLs for the Heartbleed vulnerability reasonably quickly. You can use any open source projects, programming languages, tools, etc.
How would you design a distributed lock?
